# Internationalization
Hyva checkout supports Internationalization. It uses JSON files to keep your translation keywords. All of your translation JSON files needs to be kept under `src/reactapp/public/i18n` directory. We have already provided `en_US.json` file for your reference there.

## How to add a new language translation support
You need to put your translation file inside `src/reactapp/public/i18n` directory. The format of your file is `[locale_code].json`. For example, for a German store, it should be `de_DE.json`. This is all you need to do.

## How can we translate strings in the component?
There is a helper function `__()` available, similar to the translation facility in Magento templates. You can find this helper function at `src/reactapp/src/i18n/__.js`. For an example, please see the `PlaceOrder` component.

File: `src/reactapp/src/components/PlaceOrder.jsx`

```
import React from 'react';
import { __ } from '../i18n';

function PlaceOrder() {

  return (
    <div className="flex items-center justify-center h-24">
      <Button
        variant="warning"
        big
        disable={!isValid}
        click={() => submitHandler(values)}
      >
        {__('Place Order')}
      </Button>
    </div>
  );
}

export default PlaceOrder;
```

see the import of the function `__()` and usage. It is that simple.

Another job `__()` function does is, it accepts any number of parameters which will be replaced in the string at the right position. For example, if you want to print the string: `My name is Julius Caesar`. You can do this:
```
const firstName = 'Julius';
const lastName = 'Caesar';

__('My name is {} {}', firstName, lastName);
```
In the string `{}` part indicates it is the dynamic part and needs to be replaced with the other parameters passing to the `__()`. These parameters will be replaced in the `{}` part in the given order.

## How it works
It all starts with the root element on which react app is acted on. In the hyva-module, the root DOM looks like below:

File: `src/view/frontend/templates/react-container.phtml`

```
<div
    id="react-checkout"
    data-language="<?= $localeProvider->getLocaleCode() ?>"
    data-static_file_path="<?= $block->getViewFileUrl('Hyva_Checkout/js') ?>"
>
   ...
</div>
```
As you can see there is the data attribute `data-language` which will represent the current store locale. For example, if you are viewing a UK store, then it will look like

```
<div
    id="react-checkout"
    data-language="en_GB"
    data-static_file_path="https://example.com/static/version1619794305/frontend/Magento/luma/en_GB/Hyva_Checkout/js"
>
```
so `en_GB` is the locale code  here. In this case, we need to keep our translation json file at `src/reactapp/public/i18n/en_GB.json`. React app will fetch the correct tanslation json file based on this and load it.

You also note that there is another data attirbute which is `data-static_file_path`. This is needed in order to load the translation json file as a static asset in a hyva-theme or in luma-theme. So we copy all the translation json files available in `src/reactapp/public/i18n` directory into the directory `src/view/frontend/web/js/i18n` during the app build process and thus these static json files will be used by the production build.
